& HELP
Fate's Tithe

  See http://fort.chrysalis.me/

Smith, transfers, rules, ftb, pregnancy, mine, channels, gp, censorship

& test
okay

& smith
Without the smiths, Pern would certainly be lost. The Smith Craft is the craft responsible for the flamethrowers used by the ground crews to fight thread and the tools used by all of Pern in their day to day lives. They are the ones who not only create the bulk of Pern's equipment from the raw metals that the miners provide them with, but they are the ones who create new tools, responsible for what technological progress that there is. Most of the time the innovations coming out of the Smith hall are minor, but such is not always the case.

Mastersmith Ewmpa is a genuinely likeable fellow. Warm and incredibly friendly, he has a habit of treating everyone he encounters as though he has known them for all of his life -- and it's often hard to remember for those interacting with them that he has not. In his mid forties, he's a hard worker and more honest than many, but has an uncanny gift for seeing right through someone else's dishonesty. Many a person has made the mistake of taking his warmth and honesty as meaning that he is naïve, and it does not generally take long for them to realize said mistake.

Master Zuker is a far quieter man than the one that he assists, though he is no less capable with the craft itself. Just about Ewmpa's age, he deals primarily with the physical crafting aspects of the Hall. His counterpart, Master Ravan, is quite a few years younger, and predictably oversees the invention aspects of the craft for the Mastersmith. Mind, neither of these individuals' efforts on the Mastersmith's part remove his hand from the day to day affairs of the craft. He is at times involved at all levels, though the apprentices see him a bit less than the journeymen and masters do.

& transfers
Fate's Tithe does not accept transferred characters from other games. Characters will not be approved 'as is' from another game with their history and trappings fully intact. 

With that said, we do accept previously played characters, and we expect that a lot of people here will be playing their old characters for whatever reason. They need to be made to conform with our stats, worked into our storylines, and their histories adapted to fit this continuity. In short, they need to be recreated from the ground up for this game, not just ported over as is. 

& rules
Everyone is responsible for their own entertainment. It is no one's job to keep you entertained but your own. No one can expect other people to make fun for them if they are not making their own best effort to entertain themselves. 

Everyone will make an effort to do what they say that they will do. If you agree to show up for a scene at a specific time, be there. If you say that you will run something for someone, do so. If you know you can't do something, don't say that you will. While circumstances often interfere, we all expect that folks will be both reliable and consistent. Your acceptance of a position or character with responsibilities means that you have agreed to those responsibilities. 

No one is expected to do more than they are capable of, nor to commit to more than they are comfortable with. If someone has only two hours a week to spend with the game, this is acceptable. That does not mean that you are required to make them the center of your character's universe (or the center of your plot, or...etc.) regardless of how much they are available, but it does mean that as a whole, we expect people to be willing to make accomodations for what others are capable of giving. 

Continued in 'news rules2'.

& rules2
We all expect a safe environment to play in. This means that everyone will do their best to treat others with respect and common decency at all times. It means that everyone will be respectful of others' attempts to make their own fun, as well as what they are willing to commit to and their own personal bounderies. If someone does not feel like playing, don't pester them. If a person is not logged in to a certain bit (be it staff or alt), don't poke them about it. Err on the side of caution; if you have not been invited to cross a particular boundry, don't cross it. If someone asks you to stop a particular discussion or even to stop talking to them entirely, do so. 
	
Fate's Tithe not only offers a great deal of trust to everyone playing here, but it expects it as well. We expect that people will give others the benefit of the doubt (within reason). Most of our poliicies, requirements, allowances, and general operating procedures require a considerable amount of trust -- on both sides. This trust is to be extended, and it is not to be abused. While many of us are jaded, we are to put our best foot forward in attempting to get past that here, and to assume (when other evidence is lacking) that others are putting their best foot forward as well. 

Everyone on the game is just a person, and we expect that everyone will keep this in mind; to our knowledge, the scientists at NASA have not yet created an artificial intelligence that is capable of (or at least is willing to) roleplay. No one here is immune to making mistakes, getting their feelings hurt, having a bad day, being forgetful, losing their temper, or so on. While repeated issues are symptoms of a larger problem, the occasional slip up is merely a symptom of being human. It happens, and it is expected that everyone will remember that it does and to try and be forgiving. 

Continued in 'news rules3'.

& rules3	

While we do have a looser view on IC-OOC seperation than many games operate with, we expect that the line between in character and out of character is maintained where it needs to be. IC problems should remain IC, and no one will get their noses out of joint over in character problems or situations. OOC knowledge should never be abused, even if we do allow for it to be taken into consideration sometimes. We expect that people will stay true enough to their character that continuity will be maintained and no one loses their ability to suspend belief. Everyone should play their character as said character has been defined, staying within the boundaries and limits of that character. Finally, we expect that people will always, always, always keep in mind that the behavior, actions, or opinions of a character are not the behavior, actions, or opinions of the player behind it. 

Communication is key. Not only do we expect people to keep others informed of what they need to know, we expect everyone to stay informed to the best of their ability. We expect folks to communicate their issues so that they can be addressed, rather than sitting on them to allow them to fester. We expect folks to remember that as they are responsible for their own fun, they are responsible for the communication necessary for them to have that fun. If you don't ask for help or support when you need it, you'll never get it. 

Though it does fall under the heading of respect being shown to others, we feel it specifically important to make a notation relating to OOC privacy. Here, we all expect that our OOC privacy is going to be respected. That means no spying dark, no monitoring pages, no dark puppets, and so on. This applies to everyone equally; no one here is to use any means to observe any other individual without their knowledge and consent. The only exceptions to this would be in the cases of site security (suspected hacking) or something that involves RL law enforcement. 

Continued in 'news rules4'.

& rules4

Even though everyone here is responsible for their own fun and expected to behave accordingly, we also expect everyone here to do what they can to ensure that others have fun as well. That means sharing the ball/spotlight, and remembering that everything cannot revolve around one person all of the time or even most of the time. It means picking up the pencil if someone else drops it, or if needed to going out of your way to drop the pencil sometimes. While everyone is capable of attending to their own fun, it only goes so far without the support and assistance of everyone around them. Therefore, we expect people to do what they can: to share, and to include others. We expect people to make an effort for others as well as for themselves. Give and take doesn't work if all you do is one or the other. Beyond that, everyone here is to go above and beyond in the assistance of new people. Whether they are new to just the game and need to be pulled in, or they are new to mushing entirely and need not only that, but help learning how to mush, everyone should be doing everything that they possibly can to assist. 

Everyone on this game is expected to know their own limits and to keep them in mind. We expect that no one who plays here will neglect off of game responsibilities or needs in favor of the game. If you get too busy or life begins to get in the way, we expect you to take a step back, to cool down, or to take some time off. Such things are absolutely vital, and we want to make sure that everyone here knows that not only are such things entirely allowed, they are expected. Real life absolutely comes first, and unless you're being a problem in another way (repeatedly no showing when you say you'll be there, for example), you'll never, ever be taken to task over such. We expect people to know what they're capable of and not attempt to overcommit themselves, nor to push themselves too hard in an attempt to participate here. 

Continued in 'news rules5'.

& rules5
Beyond the expectations that are had of folks (and those that they have of other people), those playing here can expect that the game is focused upon character development and interaction. The focus of the game is on the characters,  their growth, and their lives. While there will often be plotlines, such things are usually going to be geared towards the support of the exploration of the characters. Everyone here can expect that that is the sort of game that it is. In addition, our focus is on cooperative roleplay and storytelling, not competition. While some measure of interpersonal conflict is necessary to keep things interesting, the primary threats are going to be external ones, with an emphasis on troupe play to get things taken care of. Fate's Tithe is absolutely not a player versus player game (though very much at times it will be character versus character). 

Finally, we expect everyone here to remember why they are here: for enjoyment. Roleplay is a leisure time activity and a hobby, not a life or death sort of deal, and it ought to be approached with the seriousness that such requires and no more.

& ftb
Everyone has the right to fade to black a scene that is making then uncomfortable or that they choose not to play out. Roleplay stops, and the players must discuss the results of the rest of the scene OOCly, with determining precisely what has happened and how. If the scene has two other participants, the other two players are allowed to continue roleplay based off of what agreements are made with the fading player. If an agreement cannot be come to by the players involved, contact staff for mediation.

& pregnancy
At this time on Pern, there are quite a few forms of birth control, ranging from cheap and somewhat effective (types of tea) to perfect (going between regularly). A player cannot have their character become pregnant without the absolute consent of the player of the father, and the pregnancy must be noted to staff. As well, miscarriages and/or something happening to a pregnancy must be cleared with staff prior to occurance. 

& mine
The Mine Craft is one of the ugliest, unhealthiest crafts in all of Pern. It is also one of the most isolated crafts, as most Pernese have no idea what the conditions are for those who work the mines. This craft is responsible for unearthing the metal and gems so needed by the Smithcraft, as well as the Cromcoal that goes so far towards warming Pern when it is cold. Said coal is named as it is for Crom Hold, where the craft's Hall is located. 

Many a man or woman is tolerated here who would not find a place elsewhere, for finding those willing to work in the dark and the dirt under threat of a shaft's collapse is not a terribly easy task. The working conditions breed a harder sort of person -- those less charitable may even say nasty. Still, it is often said that these men and women know how to party better than many others -- they work hard, they play harder. Perhaps not a point in their favor, but who's to say? 

Masterminer Granthum is the youngest of the Craft Masters to be found on Pern, at only 32 years of age. This is nothing new for the miners -- it's a rare thing for one of theirs to live past the age of 45. Relatively new to his post, he has not thus far begun to lean on any partiuclar Master for assistance. As is perhaps to be expected, he is hot-tempered and stubborn, entirely certain that he can handle everything on his own. Only time will tell. 

It is rumored that those who break Pern's laws and subsequently disappear are sent to the mines to work as forced labor, but outside of Crom, nobody really knows for sure.

& channels
While there are a variety of faction/place/group channels that people will have access to based on their character, there are a few that serve a specific OOC purpose, and have rules involved with them. Also, while private or quasi-private channels do not have these rules, please be respectful. If someone requests that you take something to TMI, do so (or take it to pages). 

Public: General chat/discussion. Please keep a vaguely PG-13 rating on this channel, and keep in-depth descriptions that involve bodily fluids, dirty jokes, medical discussions, excessive profanity, and anything else that might be termed 'TMI' off of the channel. Please be polite (and try for friendly) at all times - this is not for the snarky. 

Code: This is for code discussion/questions. If it's code related, ask here. There won't always be somebody there for the helping, but this is the place for it.

TMI: This is the anything goes channel. Flaming / attacks are no more allowed here than in other places, but short of that sort of thing, there's no holds barred here. Be as crude and dirty or as detailed as you'd like to be. Just don't get offended if people bail. Please no cybering on the channel. 

Announce: You want to be on this channel; it's not a channel for discussion, but for the staff to make announcements on, be it requests for people to participate in a scene, for plot-things, and things along those lines. 

& gp
The following are the growth categories for which a character can earn reduction points for their milestones; while there are more than two categories, and more than two may be submitted per week (to keep track of progression and make further requests on those lines easier) only two will be rewarded with reduced time. While long-term goal completion is part of this, you cannot fully justify a reward request with 'a month ago, my character learned this.' For that reason, it is sometimes a very good idea to submit more categories than you can actually earn for - you can then build on them in later requests. You are not required to send in any of these; if you don't want to, you just won't earn these points. The categories are as follows:

Significant success

Significant failure
	
Learned something significant

Progress achieved on long-term goal

Major setback on long-term goal

Significant challenge overcome

Short-term goal achieved

New significant goal set

& censorship
It is not uncommon that in the context of an online community a great big deal is made of an individual's right to speak freely. Censorship is frowned on, regardless of the intentions behind it. While staff understands these sentiments, we feel that some measure of censorship is necessitated by the environment that we foster here. In short, Fate's Tithe is a private game and is considered a private forum, and staff not only can censor that which is potentially harmful to this environment, but do.

Hateful, aggressive, actively and intentionally rude, mean, nasty, abusive, or simply overly offensive language is not to be used in any OOC forum. While we do not expect everyone to treat all others here with warmth and effusive friendliness, we do expect -- and require -- politeness and respect regardless of personal feelings. If you cannot be civil towards a specific individual, please contact staff for a discussion of the circumstances. 

Beyond that, if someone asks you to stop discussing a particular topic in conversation where they can hear it, do so. Take it to pages, or (if it is already happening in pages) stop talking about it altogether. This specific rule does not necessarily apply to forum or bboard discussions, only to conversations. There may be exceptions to this, but such will be handled by staff on a case by case basis. 

Continued in 'news censorship2'.

& censorship2

Staff will not be policing any non-game-related forums save in extreme circumstances (such as a blatant attempt to ruin someone else's fun here via unofficial forums or e-mailed harassment). If it is not conntected to this game, we have no hope of controlling it and no wish to do so. What people may say or do in other forums is their own business -- not ours. However, all forums directly connected to this game must follow the polite and respectful policy. 

With all of this noted, everyone should also keep in mind that all here are as human as anyone else, and while the staff will not be attempting to police or control venues outside of our 'jurisdiction', word does get around and things said elsewhere may very well end up coloring peoples' perceptions. If you do not want a comment attributed to you, it is generally wisest to simply not say it at all. Word does tend to move swiftly (especially online), and very few people appreciate being spoken badly of even if there aren't obvious, direct, and/or official repercussions for such behavior.

The 'polite and respectful' rule applies only to the OOC side of things; there are no such requirements or expectations in relation to IC words and language. 